My advice for future programmers: You need to think about how to solve problems for the users. Programmers try to solve a problem for the users. It doesn't necessarily mean we're going to use code all the time. Someday, which is right a program for something else. I don't think AI will replace all the programs at once. ChatGPT came up with powerful language abilities. But it won't replace all the code we want to use. It won't integrate with all the interfaces we interact with machines all at once. We still need engineers to leverage creativity and invent solutions for all the interfaces and scenarios to be useful for users.

And that is what programmers are going to do. And not necessarily means they are going to write code; they may draw pictures as a programming way. Programming is an approach where we can translate human ideas or needs to a machine to instruct it so that it can solve the problem. Do the work for us. So there are many tasks that will be slowly replaced by AI, one by one. Maybe every day there's some task that can be replaced by AI, but it won't happen all at once. So, as a programmer, if you are always thinking about how this problem is being solved, how users' needs are to be met, what mechanisms we can leverage to solve users' needs, then you can never be fully replaced by AI. There's always some way you can leverage all the machines out there, whether it's AI, learning software, or other types of machines. And it doesn't matter what type of machine it is. If you know how they work and how they can fit into the problem you're trying to solve, you can always be a good engineer and be valuable to the world.

So, my suggestion for future programmers: Be user-centric. Learn more programming languages. Learn how other machines work. Don't limit yourself to one programming language. Don't limit yourself to coding. Try to learn, for example, how mechanical machines work, how they can solve problems in the real world by leveraging physical power. Learn how human organizations are designed, the psychology behind those design decisions. In the end, you should be able to design any machines, including those informed by human intelligence. An engineer is essentially an organization machine builder and designer. They understand how society works, how finance works, and they can build a machine so it can run and generate useful things from certain resources and be useful to society in exchange for money. This is my advice to be a useful person in the future. This is the real engineer mindset. Be open to learning about new things. Keep thinking about what's the key problem to be solved and keep learning about new technology that could be helpful. Eventually, you'll find some sweet overlap between them, and that is something you need to work on, either through a startup or joining a big company.

===End of transcription===